- The Candle Coast is a setting comprising a pocket civilisation on the coast of an ambiguous continent, with a rich local history and mythology. There are [[Crown Cities]], at various places on [[The Map]], [[Individuals]], many different [[Races]] and an [[Amnean Empire]] to get started with. The setting's timeline at present is split into a [[First Age]] (Years 0-700)and [[Second Age]] (Years 700-Present). At the moment, the HOSA campaign takes place in the year ~1150. In the year ~1200, we're gonna have a [[Third Age]].
- Some work on cosmology is probably a good idea? Overall, I want it to be quite loose. Being able to say 'this is my favourite idea from fiction, some of its elements have wandered far enough from home to make it to the candle coast' should always be possible. I have a draft idea that the Materium is coveted above all others since it has no creator and is the oldest, most objectively real plane. This needs developed though, but would be why Amn was so willing to risk it all to conquer the Coast.
	- There are some other important planes, though. Writing this, HOSA have heard of two - those accessed through the Eye of Fire and the Eye of Light. We know that Tiamat, or a strong aspect of her, is contained beyond the Eye of Fire. We also know that beyond the Eye of Light is the Endless Silver Forest - inhabited by Jub Jub Birds, Bandersnatches, and the dreaded Jabberwock.
	- I'm having a separate page for my equivalent of the Astral Plane. It's going to be a kind of dream/sea/duat type thing. I want a way for creatures to get sent there - I think creatures who are impaled on a Shryke tree often find their way to this plane. For now (and this will be one of its names anyway, always good for something to have a million names - maybe this is what the people from the northern deserts call it?) it'll be called the [[Duat]].
- We have some named [[Dragons]].
- I reckon the Underdark equivalent is the [[Unveil]].
- Away from the coast is the Unchartable Sea, and inland is the Impassable Range.