- Carminite is a metal made for the first time in the breaking-kirk. It is also known as Adamantium. (For now i think we leave mithril as mithril.)
- Carminite is blood-red in colour and is a really messed-up fictional combo of [[Temperglass]] and molten dragonscale. Since the second half of that is almost impossible to create, carminite itself was only made after the Red Sun (Quasatar) was created.
- I reckon that what you do is blow temperglass into the desired shape, or pour it into a mould, and then 'bleed' it with the dragonscale, the natural glint of which hardens the glass from within even as they form a homogenous mixture. That sounds roughly logical, or stupid but in the right way. The result is a material with essentially ultra-steel-like properties. It's not light, but it's not like supermassive either; it never rusts, and doesn't weaken with age; almost nothing on the Coast exists that can scratch it let alone penetrate it. The only disadvantage is that if you fuck up the mold it takes some serious work to reforge it. But, you had the tools to melt dragon scales in the first place so you're probably fine.
-
- When carminite is broken or scratched, it retains the property of dragonscale to knit itself back together in a limited capacity, but due to the crystalline glass structure underlying it, it forms spurs and geometric artefacts as it does so. So a beaten up piece of carminite will look spiky and jagged, kinda like doomsday in superman. I think that the hotter the environs, the neater this process is - so Algol Ab still looks smooth.
-
- As a material it exhibits disturbing haemotropic properties. As if knitting itself back together with a system of which it was never a part, the metal will form tendrils and protrusions seeking living blood. These tendrils will extend along blood vessels once found, and the condition is dubbed 'Diamond Veins'. Oddly, the vessels continue to function, though prolonged exposure has strange and wildly varying effects on a subject. In its infancy, Carminite was thought to be a great solution for plate armour, and a few suits were made. But when this diamond veins condition was noticed, with the realisation that those warriors could never remove the armour, it was shunned. As part of constructs, and with any non-blooded creature, it remains a powerful asset. This is one reason why the planetar could not work with living pilots.