- Drider are not common or documented in the Candle Coast. The term is like 'boogeyman' or 'spectre' - a word used reactively in fear, to name a creature you don't understand the first thing about.
- In this case, they are the elite progeny of Sarelgaz, the giant-spider-hivemind-thing which lives at the bottom of the black pit in the mines inland of Stromness
-
- Drider is short for 'doppelganger spider' i guess? we could have a poor soul say this if they come upon them before any drider.
-
- Visually, the drider - when fully formed - look like humanoids being swallowed up to the waist by giant arachnids. It looks like it's painful for the arachnid - theyre almost distending their jaw to accommodate what appears to be their meal. But, the trick comes in their shapeshifting ambush predation style. The drider is free to change the appearance of the humanoid they have as their 'front half'. They also have an affinity for the 'smothering-dark' that accompanies the progeny of Sarelgaz; this usually manifests in the shadows clinging to the spider half of their body, and contrasting against the humanoid half.
-
- "An unsuspecting spelunker looks lazily over their shoulder to where their companion has fallen behind. They see the companion being dragged into the shadows by something just out of sight - its form resists even the spelunker's powerful headlamp. Pick in hand, they charge to save their friend! But as soon as they are too close to correct their mistake, their friends torso stretches out with a horrific popping sound - as if it were the tongue of the beast, tasting the air.
  The shadows rush from the beast, revealing its bulbous form. They form sharp smoke in the mimic's hands, shaped by their mind's echo into a pickaxe they would have worked with. And behind the torso, the bloated spider rustles forwards. Rearing up, spinnerets launch horribly sharp filaments that bind the spelunker to the cave floor where he cowers, and struggle against them draws blood instantly. His fate is sealed... dun dun dunnnnn"
-
-
- Not sure stats but dungeonworld is cool so we don't care. emphasise its cool fiction first! Ambush - it can choose what its humanoid 'lure' looks like, or retract it fully such that it is completely enveloped. Its spider half is also kinda cloaked by the shadows - itll be out of sight even if a light is pointed right at it. This property drops when it transitions to 'attack' and brings those same shadows to bear as weapons in its lure's hands.
- It chooses the lure based off of a weak surface level skimming of thoughts from its prey. The weapons tend to be crude, geometric imitations of tools the lure would have used. A miner would get a shovel or a pickaxe. You might get a drider swinging manacles at you in a castle dungeon where it's mimicking the jailor, or pretending to wield the same mythic shield as the knight who failed to vanquish it before you. etc etc
- In combat, focus on describing all the bits that make spiders scary (scuttling rustling legs, hair, bloated body etc), and in particular the sounds that it makes (the legs, the rushing of the shadows, the popping, stretching noise that the lure makes, the way it talks with the same voice as the lure but they sound far away). When it's hit, the spider's blood is black and the lure's is rebel flesh-white, like rubber from a tree. It retracts in response to pain, and its lure flickers form back to a faceless, translucent-skinned humanoid shape, whose arms are giant spider fangs (which would close over its head to function normally were it to fully retract its lure). We have the one that Olaf freed be unable to change its form, as it shifted while in its infancy and cannot now produce any other disguise.
- They are not beast-minded, and are intelligent nodes of the hivemind. Drider possess mastery with weapons that is centred on them, and not on the skill of their lure. Preferring to ambush those who are separated from the group, drider will not be traded out as cheap pieces. They are Sarelgaz's elite, and are treated as such. In dungeonworld terms, they are often the focus of our hard moves.
- For example, we say things like "pressing your attack, you realise this thing is not only better than you in the sword duel, but MUCH better. Unless you think outside the box, your usual tactics will give you no opening to hit this thing. What do you try to do?" and force them not to say "i hit it again", by not being afraid to essentially say that it's too good, you can't. Or, even on a full success, we give them a successful outcome and don't deal heavy damage, but it doesn't have to be exactly what they were aiming for, eg on a 10: "flashing the bright light at it you go to strike and in desperation it releases one of the shapes in its hands at you in a concussive pulse that extinguishes your flare. Knocked back and ears ringing but otherwise unharmed, you notice it is down to only one weapon." Something like that  - as in, don't be afraid to give them something other than damage as a reward. chop a leg off, spend a weapon, do no damage but smaug loses a scale - that one's especially good because then you can make it feel like they killed it *because* they hit it in its vitals, and also give a good explanation for why misses don't work - they didnt hit the weak spot.