- ()Minnow meets with Berron after being resurrected. They want to get their Clasp of Dual Eyes back, and ask about the city's weapons that Berron has alluded to.)
- An uneventful journey to the Central Iron Refinery, workshop of Count Oleg Berron. At the gates, your letters of regard grant you access - and once again, Berron personally teleports to you, offering a magical shortcut to his office. The characteristic brief pausing of the great machines when Berron teleports signals his arrival, and it happens again when you travel together. How many floors down, you still do not know.
  
  The office is mostly as you remember it. An oval desk at the centre of a large circular auditorium whose walls are eight drum furnaces, the chimney-chutes clustering above you to become the ceiling. The candle of whiteish gold Imperial star-fire sits on Berron's desk still, with a box of fresh candles beside it. His books on kintsugi are gone, and there're fewer coffee mugs than usual. Still, it's the organised chaos you've come to expect. 
  
  The owl-faced Clasp of Dual Eyes is on his desk when you arrive, and he motions for you to collect it. "Sorry it took a while," and he asks you if there was anything else. When you ask about his agenda for the Comitatus, he chuckles. 
  
  "What would you guess? The obvious ones. Ask them to delegate more of their defence spending to me, which they'll agree to. I do it all anyway, or me and Grace now she's on the scene. Ask them for more iron and lumber from outside the city, where I don't have the reach to go. Doubt they'll accept that. Then I'll ask again about the literal city-saving technologies that are built in but which for some reason we're not using. They'll say the same thing they always say, I'll try not to shout at them, standard stuff. Happens every time and to be honest I'm considering not going if things don't change soon."
  
  Asking about these weapons: 
  
  "Well, the lump of rock stopping us telling lies is one. There're three in all, that come from various points in history but were kind of formalised by the big boss Themselves, you know what I mean? The two towers in the North and West, the ones that're carved like gargoyles? They ARE gargoyles. Well, constructed ones, but they can be woken up is the point. They're the second one, called the Dracomortem. With cannons in their mouths! No style in this place any more, guess we don't have the time for it. But imagine that. 
  
  The others are the big rock under the council like I said, the Ama Magna, and then the other one is more of a weapon so I'm just not going to tell you what it is. I'm sure you could find out if you dug hard enough though, but I'd rather you didn't. Think it best to have some aces up our sleeves, even amongst friends, right? But the Ama Magna is cool. It's kind of like a giant Command spell - a stone that signalled Authority in pre-Imperial times, even. Lets you cast spells much further than normal apparently. And the thing about these artefacts is that whoever has the truest claim to the throne or something, controls them. Like they're bound to the city. So at the minute that's us, but it's a pretty 'in absentia' line of reasoning you know? Pretty contrived. We're all worried about something with actual Imperial importance wandering out of the dark and turning our city against us. Better to have the giant cannon towers ready for when that happens I would say. But, they'll not see it like that, which is a shame."
  
  Berron says a favour for a favour, and "what is it you'll be bringing up at the council? Agreed, it's nice to have a bit of collaboration before we all get put on the spot."