- While in Kingarroch— Minnow briefly stayed in Kingarroch, a large city with plenty of people and a plethora of things to do. It’s a perfect place for a person wanting to forget and move on. They stayed in a room above an old tailor’s shop for a couple months while scoping out the city and making some contacts. Their main goal was to hire a few people to obtain information on Greed and anyone in association with him. To track whereabouts, deals, or person’s of interest. Minnow isn’t sure where Greed himself is or what he’s up to, but there’s a high chance someone in the city must have heard of or encountered him. 
  Upon arriving in Kingarroch, Minnow would like to look for Treyseth, an older tiefling man who frequents gambling dens and shady trade markets. Minnow had come across Treyseth their first week in Kingarroch and had tried to best him at a game of cards. Minnow lost, quite quickly, but throughout the game, had discussed the quick and intense draw of a winning streak. Mainly the coin that came along with it. How addictive it could be, and how quickly one could fall into the trap of greed and gain. Treyseth, while a gambler himself, often played for the conversation and the easy chat between players. Soon Minnow revealed their want for vengeance against Greed, and asked Treyseth if he’d keep an ear out for any sign of the cohort. No payment was agreed upon between the two.
- I’d like to hint there’d also be someone from Minnow’s village that survived the rampage Minnow went on as a child. They don’t remember hurting people in their blind rage after The Raven man’s visit and Minnow’s family’s demise. But I think there’s a high chance that they didn’t kill everyone in the village. Someone that he’s hurt, badly, managed to escape the massacre, but not without some nasty scars. If this is something  you’re willing to allow, I’d like to present to you: Dimma. 
  Dimma was young when Minnow attacked the town, but older than Minnow. A teenage elven girl with loving parents and a sweet kitten called Farr. She was happy— content with her slow life in Fallow Glen as the daughter of the miller. She lived at the mill on the river. When the Raven Man came to Fallow Glen, she thought nothing of it, at first. But then he started making promises and dropping coin. She was untempted, for she could want for nothing. But her father, on the other hand, fell victim to The Raven Man’s overfull purse. He wanted more than a miller’s meager life, and asked for coin enough to move far far away. Dimma originally thought he’d take his family with him, wherever it was he’d wanted to go. But she was wrong. He packed up what little he could carry and disappeared. 
  But soon that wouldn’t matter, as a fate much worse lurked for her and her mother. 
  Minnow, the boy who’d spend hours at the riverbank, staring into the water. His whole family had fallen to The Raven Man’s tricks, and Dimma supposed he just couldn’t take it anymore. She didn’t blame him. But she wasn’t prepared to face the sharp blade of an axe swung in wrath so silver it blinded in the sun. 
  Dimma crawled out of that village with the hate of grief and loss the only thing left in her. A long silvery scar running from the left of her neck down her front to her right thigh. Her survival only assured due to the magic just begging to convalesce within her. 
  Dimma lives in Kingarroch as a Cleric of the Grave for the Church of (can I make up a church? Or should this be a church of another of the sins? Would be cool either way.)
- If possible, I think Minnow would go back to their room above the tailor’s (Owned by a sweet, old human woman, Lyla) and collect some things they had hidden for safe-keeping, protected by Lyla due to her fondness for Minnow. Minnow has not had someone as kind as Lyla in their life for many years, and they value her loyalty and good heart more than any belonging. Lyla keeps these in a small wooden box, locked with a key that Minnow keeps on their person.
- Items: 
  of Retribution — Ring, rare (requires attunement by a paladin or cleric) 
  This tarnished iron ring bears a dark pearl at its center. One side of the ring depicts a hellish knight, while the other an angelic priest. While wearing the ring, any armor you wear glimmers with a slight pearlescence. You gain a +1 bonus to AC while wearing this ring, and whenever you would deal fire or radiant damage, you can change the damage type to radiant or fire, respectively. In addition, you gain the following option for your Channel Divinity feature:
- Wrathful Ward: As a bonus action, you can use your Channel Divinity to present the Ring of Retribution and cast the Protection form Evil and Good spell from it, targeting yourself only. For the duration, when a creature affected by the spell hits you with an attack, it automatically takes 1 d8 radiant damage.
- Clasp of Dual Eyes  — Cloak clasp, wonderous item (requires attunement) 
  This cloak clasp is a tarnished, dark silver with a think chain in between two large owl eyes. The pupils of the eyes are twinkling opals. When the cloak clasp is holding concentration on a spell, the eyes close. 
  While wearing this item, the wearer is granted the ability to concentrate on 2 concentration spells at once. This cloak clasp has charged equal to your casting modifier and recharges each dawn. When rolling concentration checks, individual checks must be made for each spell.