- Maker’s District — Kingarroch
- The Maker’s district in Kingarroch is full to bursting with textiles, jewelry, glass, trinkets, furniture, bakeries, cafes, smitheries, art studios and much more. Kingarroch’s main source of non-essential trade begins here. 
  The streets are winding but long so the lines and rows of awnings and signage can be seen from miles down the way. Smoke rises from the buildings, but not the smoke of industry, the warm hearth smoke of creation-fire. Light is never too dim here, as people create even hours into the night. 
  The narrow and crowded streets mean it’s always slightly too warm to be comfortable, even in the dead of winter. It’s also happily a tourist spot with beautifully carved statues, museums filled with paintings and art pieces, towering cathedrals, street performers/buskers on every corner, and shows at nearly every public house and theater. Locals tend to keep away from this area of Kingarroch unless they work there due to she steep prices and constant crowds. It’s also not always the safest area: prone to pickpocketing, thievery, and quick, scrappy street fights. Also not largely residential, again aside from the people that work there and the occasional over-priced inn. Minnow lived here (above the tailor’s) when they stayed in Kingarroch. Many of the roads are poorly paved, or not at all— almost never properly up-kept. Rouges are known to frequent this part of the city as a sort of ‘racing course’ due to the uneven roof-tops, winding streets, and plethora of footholds in the walls. There’s also rumored to be a great map of underground pathways/tunnels where thieve’s guilds meet and trade.