- Minnow is Katie's character, a vengeance paladin with their oath to Wrath itself. All the various bits of writing and background are here as far as possible.
- [[Minnow's Time in the Mosswood (And Other Pre-Lucas' Campaign Stuff)]]
- [[Time in Kingarrock]]
- [[Minnow's Brief Stint With Death]]
- [[Misc Writings About Minnow]]
- **
- **MINNOW  (Cento Kellon) **
- Dungeons and Dragons 5e character
- Race: Kalashtar (UA)
- Class: Paladin (Oath of Vengeance)
- Background: Far Traveler
- Languages:  Common, Sylvan, Quori, Abyssal
- Pronouns: They/He
- Alignment: True Neutral / Neutral Stupid
- Feat: Observant
- Age: 20
- Height: 6’2
- **
- **
- Minnow— Cento Kellon— has been deserted. It’s their own fault, really. No one can truly claim to be loved when they’ve killed or left the only family they’d ever known.
- Minnow is a strange name for a person, especially a person of Minnow’s considerable stature. But one in their fifteenth summer, Cento had spent hours upon hours a day at The Stream of Swords— a small stream off a larger tributary called Seven Killed— learning to fish. The fish and frogs in The Stream were of a strange sort: bright pearlescent ivory that flashed iridescent in the sun. The more superstitious residents of Cento’s village, Fallow Glen, whispered that to feed one’s family with even the smallest minnow from The Stream of Swords would ensure that they and their kin would want for nothing. Cento would sit, hunched on the stream’s unstable bank, the cool water flowing over his feet, with a sharpened stick and his pale eyes on the surface. Every flit of movement, a possible solution to all his worries. They were such tiny fish, but Cento was sure that he could catch one. Supposedly his mumbled *minnow… minnow… catch a minnow *as he wandered back home from the stream every day— empty handed— was off-putting to the other villagers, who perhaps already found him odd.
- Cento never did manage to bring home a shining white minnow, but the name he earned for his efforts haunts him. Maybe his inability to fish was the reason his family suffered such unyielding *want. *So much so that his mother dismantled their home piece by piece to sell just so she could use the coin for gambling. Or why his father sold all his wife’s jewelry so he could afford his nightly brothel visits. Or why his sister spent so much time staring at her own reflection— in dinner plates, in pools of water, in shop windows, that she began to hate her own face. Hate it so much the scratches she gave herself disfigured her for the rest of her short life.
- Maybe it wasn’t the minnow’s fault. Maybe it was the Man. The Stranger of Ravens who swooped through Fallow Glen and seemed almost to drip coins. The villagers whispered *wishes… The Man grants wishes. *But Minnow had fallen for their gossip before. His family however, was not so cautious. One by one, they went to The Raven Man and asked. For* money, please, just to help my family, *asked his mother. The Man granted her wish with a sack of gold larger than her head. But Minnow never saw a cent of it, nor did he see her outside the clutches of a gambling den again. *Please, please, trinkets and jewels, to win the favor of my wife, *begged his father. Jewels and trinkets he gave to the girls he visited, hoping to gain cheaper access. *I want to be beautiful again, *pleaded his sister. The Man nodded, but instead of granting her wish, he cut her down. Her head from her shoulders and her breath from her bones. She would never have to see herself again, tortured and mangled and thin. Minnow saw her only as red in that moment, her blood pooling on the stone street and seeping out of her to meet The Raven Man’s polished black shoes. Minnow saw him truly then: a man of Greed. Pockets never full enough, people never reverent enough, lovers never giving enough. The Man was a raven not because he craved shiny things, but because he *fed *off the dead.
- Minnow ceased to be Cento Kellon that day, not because his family left him, nor because he had been dubbed with a silly nickname. Cento died because Minnow killed anyone that knew him. The wrath that consumed him at his sister’s death took his body and forged a weapon. The village of Fallow Glen ran into The Stream of Swords. The flitting minnows that were once so hard to see in the watery sunlight, became stark spots. The stream, now red, shone with white fish, bits of life that had yet to stain with blood Minnow had spilt.
- For years, Minnow wandered with nothing but the kind of rage that ate everything in its path and still carved out their insides, yearning, aching for more. Minnow was empty of everything. The winter of their eighteenth year, they stumbled upon another stream— miles and years away from The Stream of Swords. The water was clear, but they still spotted it almost immediately— an iridescent white minnow. The stream was another branch of The Seven Killed tributary, The Stream of Solitude. Minnow had honed their skills with a blade and with their body within the last three years. They reached out, quick as a dropped silver coin, and snatched the fish from the water. It spasmed and glittered in his hand, its scales biting into his skin. Its eyes were glassy marbles of crimson. Minnow bit into it. Scarfing down the measly meal in two swallows— its bones and scales scraped his throat but it was the most satisfying meal he’d had in years. He was the only family he had left, after all. Maybe this minnow would finally provide what he’d been yearning for.
- It did not. A fish is only a fish and Minnow is only wrath.
- Minnow’s pesky *want *was tormenting them. The only promise of satiation came in the form of Wrath. Not that wrath hasn’t always been with Minnow in some way, but Wrath— the embodiment, the original Wrath— is a different story altogether. Minnow doesn’t fully understand the depths of Wrath’s goals or plans, but they will gladly take the Wrath. It fills the sinking void in their gut that only seems to grow larger every passing day. The wrath is warm, it's a hearth, it’s in every swallow of liquor, it’s in the first spill of sun in the mornings. So they’ll take it, and they’ll use it until, one day, they’ll be more than a weapon.
- —
- Minnow doesn’t remember a whole lot from the essentially rage-induced killing spree they went on, but they do know that they received a couple gnarly scars. Mainly on their face and neck. They’re not sure if they’re self-inflicted from not being careful, or if they were from the villagers or people with Greed, or Greed himself. But I think if Wrath has any symbology or if Wrath’s followers wear Owl or bird masks or iconography in any way, Minnow is on it immediately. It’s a way to help them cover the same associated with their scars and to disguise and disassociate themself from what they feel. I think Wrath itself and Owls as birds of prey can be well-connected— the silence and solitude of wrath where it often is present but unknown until the moment it needs to kill. Other symbols I think Minnow would associate with Wrath, whether right or wrong, would be: running water, fire (campfires, torches), and bones.
- Minnow is also a bit ambiguous as to their gender and size. Mainly due to the mask and the amount of clothes and armor they wear. Their height is pretty clear, but it’s hard to tell how much bulk they really have, and their voice is a bit muffled and hard to discern as masculine or feminine from behind the mask. They will, however, respond to any pronouns and they would respond to their real name if anyone called them by it.
- **