- Church Crailbeth of Breath and Burial — Serving Saint Crailbeth of burial rites and bodies. Grave domain clerics. Ensures the burial rites and bodies are treated properly post-mortem in accordance with the wishes of the dead. Watches over burial sites. Vengeful against grave robbers and next-of-kin who squander the wishes or speak ill of the dead. 
  Dimma is a cleric of this church and does thier ‘dirty work’ — this includes the under-the-table dealings the church does for wealthy and influential people looking to glean information only obtainable from the dead. Using spells like Speak With Dead, Gentle Repose, Raise Dead, Soul Cage, Resurrection, and True Resurrection . This is strictly secretive as it is technically forbidden by the laws of the church, but the preform these acts unbeknownst to the public. Only a small team is granted leeway to carryout these tasks for the church and its purveyors. Dimma is one such Cleric. She takes it upon herself to allow ‘the true will of the dead’ by ‘granting them life once more— whether briefly, or permanently.’ On the outside, she (and the rest of the small task-force of clerics) present as kind and respectful of the dead and their burials to a fault. She of course is extremely respectful and reverent of the dead and St. Crailbeth, but she believes carrying out these deeds is in service to her purpose.
- The Church and any associated small churches and institutions/alters are always located or surrounded by a graveyard, cemetery, kirkyard, or adjacent. Iconography of the church includes: an anatomical heart wreathed in finger bones (phalanges and metacarpals); a red, withering hyacinth; three pointed, faceted star in front of a fern frond. Churches are always circular in shape with a circular nave, domed roof, and rose windows (circular stained glass). They also feature an atrium (serving as a foyer and always facing north), where visitors and the devout alike are asked to light votive candles to carry throughout the church.
- Main church would probably be found in the more peaceful area as a sort of pandering to the people that they can use the church to plan their loved ones’ funerals and be a safe space to worship.
- Saint Crailbeth is resting in the basement of the main cathedral. Her tomb is entirely and magically sealed. Her followers are forbidden from trying to use grave or necromantic magic to resurrect or exhume her. (But some members still aim to as they believe she hold knowledge none living currently possess.) She is a saint whose ’relics’ are said to be scattered around the world, so one of her fingers bones is on display on an alter in the apse of the main cathedral.
- I think it’s really likely that they put out a neutral front to the general public, but maybe circulate money and favors between one or two great houses, especially with their central cathedral in Kingarroch— they’re in a good position to have their hands in many pots. But I don’t know of a specific house(s) they’re particularly interested in, so probably best for that some come out organically as we play through the city. Their main political aims are to gain as many footholds as possible by making little promises and collecting small favors from lots of powerful people. The church grants many boons, so many noble houses and organizations owe them— whether that be money, deeds, or artifacts. As a small church, their goal is to expand and assimilate— their mission and core beliefs are diluted the more wide and populous they become. The core being bodies and burials, but this can be twisted and distorted into anything from ‘souls in the afterlife’ to ‘faith in the eternal and immortal’. The church of Crailbeth isn’t picky about what their devout believe, as long as they’re gaining followers.