- This should be long and rambly and shit tons of waffle. no structure just stream of consciousness. all the stuff that lives in this hellhole temple should be written down here if it needs cool lore about it.
-
- [[Encounter Tables]] are also brainstormed here.
  
  ...
- Here is a list of weird shit that we can keep in the Kirk.
	- the red door: it's the thing from the treasure vault of Yre. You have to feed a person to it and then it chews, gulps, and splits in half to open.
	- the pit of scales. same deal as the ooze but its a pit of carminite scales, that iron-man suit up if the necklace on one of the binding statues is put on.
	- a collection of prayer statuettes that weep blood, sitting on a ledge/table of flowers that are blooming brilliant colours in the absence of any light.
	-
	-
-
- [[The Lamentors]] are here as they believe Saturno to be pursuing a 'false idol' - that is, a creature that mimics Saturno's abilities and thus leads Lamentors astray. They have named this quarry Pluton. However, what they do not realise is that Pluton is the only memory-confounding being in this part of the Coast, and is in reality an aslin. Aslin are terrifying snail-like monsters from the Duat, and since they are born of mortal dreams they are very individual and weird and fucked up but for some reason (because we need a motif) they all look snail-like. Anyway, this one is called Pluton (it doesn't really name itself but knows that it plays that role in the Lamentors' story) and needs the Lamentors to access something in the lower levels of the Kirk.
-
- [[The Cloak of Jove]]
-
-
- The First Chorus of Rust houses the remembrancer, the Firsthands of Grond, the Bells of Breaking, and the Twin Plagues: Oxidis Amas (the "sticking-rust") and Oxidis Corpus (the "puppet curse"). It has a pigpen and a pen of rust monsters. all the mod cons.
  
  The first chorus was the first avenue off attack against starmetal. The idea was to accelerate the rusting process, and to attempt to corrode the starmetal as if it had endured centuries of weathering. The idea existed for ferrous metals already; the trick would be getting it to stick on the Emperor's meteoric surgold. 
  
  A notable biproduct of the first chorus was the [[Rust Monster]] project.
-
- The first chorus also did the [[Visions From Beyond]]! The machinery that made them has been trashed all around the Choral Greathall, but we see that the moulds are all there etc.
-
- Grond was the first majorly powerful figure to align themselves with the Kirk. At this time, Grond's following was in its infancy. Nobody knew from where sprang his talents, and they were considered some sort of a miraculous anomaly. Superlative skill in craftsmanship, and supplemented through arcane means, Grond had made himself a deity of the forge. Famously, he amputated his hands and replaced them with mechanical ones, so that they could survive extreme temperature and pressure during his work in the Kirk. He achieved many feats with the Kirk, the Bells of Breaking being one of the first times that Grond's power of making was leveraged in its inverse process. Oxidis Amas was the culmination of the first chorus' efforts toward the main goal. Ultimately, it was a failure. The rust stuck to and corroded everything it touched except surgold. 
  
  Grond's story would continue into the Second Chorus of the Sun. He was essentially the forgemaster and chief craftsman of the Kirk, up until the failure of the Red Sun to melt starmetal. In this time he helped to make Carminite and the Planetar, he helped to guide the refinement of temperglass and spireglass. 
  
  Then, the Red Sun failed completely to melt starmetal. At this point, Gaggolduplex (The "Sea of Annihilation") (lol) had been found, and a permanent passage established. Gaggolduplex is one of the biiiiig ones, a huge limitless swamp of antimatter that bubbles around and removes anything it touches from existence. It's one of the easier things to understand - but is it just the blood spilling out of a bigger one? stay tuned. But yeah, essentially they call Grond for a meeting on the -1000th floor and he goes damn i didnt know the lift went down so far they go hey dw about it, and they get to the bottom floor where they've made a well-portal directly into the heart of Gaggolduplex. They jump him immediately but he's a god so he's just killing left and right, going like oh shit oh shit and they hit him with all the fucked up things they helped him make, at which point all three planetar port in and begin beating the shit out of him. He tries to rust them but carminite cannot rust, and before he can think of anything else they have him in the well, dr who rebel flesh style. So as he dies he unleashes his last fuck you to the mortals, the Oxidis Corpus, which basically turns everyone into a puppet. And so those infected have to stay away from Oxidis Amas, because otherwise you'll turn into a puppet then fall to bits. But oxidis amas is absolutely everywhere, especially in the first chorus, so shit starts to kinda fall apart at this stage.
  
  And now we get to the bit where they go ok we need someone else to feed to Gaggolduplex because we knew one wouldnt be quite enough. So they reckon Yetzira from the north is pretty good, if we can get a big enough chunk of them that'll do it. Then the fucked up part is that a generation of parents indoctrinate all of their kids into believing in Yetzira so that Yetzira can see true belief in them, even though the parents don't give a shit and also know all their kids will die forcing Yetzira's avatar into the well.
  
  Also at this point, they make Tiamat and the Vile Hand, because Grond said absolutely fucking not, but they do it anyway, it doesn't melt the metal, and so they go ok lol let's just teleport it to the surface. Queue it attacking the emperor at Caladbolg. 
  
  So then in the Kirk timeline, what happens next is that Yetzira is essentially chugging along, making this third chorus of anticreation. And the ascetic monks are fanatics because their parents overdid it a bit, but it gives them some cool shit like the Altar of Unmaking and they go ok well if we need to undo a few of our creations now we can. We now have Lupun, the doorman's dog, living out its natural lifetime. The first chorus is kinda in shambles but the Remembrancer is still monitoring everything. 
  
  At this point, five Delvers get into the crossroads and all hell breaks loose. We need to account for the headless one in the first seal. Then, two are killed by running into all three planetar at once. Then,
-
- starting off strong we write about the Planetars that come from the second chorus of the Sun. What did this chorus try to do? tried to just directly melt the starmetal by making a fake sun, the Red Sun, which would later gain sentience and become Quasatar. Their sum acheivements include the Vile Hand (of Vord fame), actual literal Tiamat, temperglass and spireglass, and the planetar. And the pilot lights, to an extent.
  
  So what's the deal with the planetar? Starting with the twin suns. So they were like, let's see if we can just mimic the starfire and get something hot enough to straight up melt through the starmetal. They did this not by kindling a fire from scratch - too expensive. They found a way to split the nothing in front of them into equal positives and negatives, and scaled up used this technique to create the Red Sun and the Black Sun (now sentient and called Quasatar and Blackwolf-Rayet respectively).
  
  At first, they focussed on the Red Sun, the hot one. It was so much hotter than any of their forges, but it still couldn't get through the starmetal thimble that they had. Then they repurposed it. They figured they could get something close to a Paladin of their own, fueled by their Red Sun instead of the Emperor. So they got to work, and they made three eight-foot suits of Carminite (name in progress, it's the red metal that the Vile Hand is made of too). And with a fire from the Red Sun inside them, the suits could be piloted. But each pilot was immediately incinerated. It wasn't until after many trials that the suits on which they'd experimented most started to twitch, as if possessed. So, within these suits, they cremated entire communities of kirkfolk - sixty-six within each, to mirror the Emperor's seventy-seven Paladins. The fire lit from the burning kirkfolk makes each of the suits a mini dyson sphere, piloted (or haunted) by the seventy-seven dead kirkfolk. "The charcoal sum of a community who paid their lives to move this machine". 
  
  After a 3-star constellation, the Planetar suits were named the Algol Trinary. They comprised Aa1, Aa2 and Ab. All of the focus of the Red Sun program had been redirected toward these suits' combat capabilities. In these times, an attack from Delvers was the second greatest fear, next to a Paladin. These were the foes against which all of the Planetar oaths were sworn, and all their training was in order for them to kill or buy time against a potential Delver or Paladin incursion. In the case of a Paladin it was known unspokenly that the Algol program would not have a hope, but when five Delvers did make it down to the Kirk, they were successfully repelled in part due to the Planetar.
  
  The metal from which the Planetar and Vord's hand are constructed is [[Carminite]]. 
  
  Terrifying brute. Mk1 Iron man suit. Eight-foot tall construct of fused rounded plates of blood-red carminite. Light shines from within, spins around in orbiting droplets. Can be released in focussed bursts in offensive 'vents'. Voice echoing and flat-toned, like a machine voice. Occasionally splits into the spectrum of 77 individual voices before recoalescing. Primarily armed with a temperhammer, so that the Planetar can swing at full might and not break their weapon. Secondarily, as mentioned, they have their inner light with which they can fight beings that may be resistant to the mundane nature of the hammer. 
  
  Third, and most interestingly (and recently), the Planetar are equipped with a [[Pilot Light]]. Or maybe it's just Algol Ab, idk yet. But anyway this gives them many additional cool things and including being trained in its use by the Zero Monks from chorus 3, basically puts the wielder a step above the others. 
  
  The only power I've come up with so far is the kind of mental-war type "Ego Battle" (?) (WIP) thing that it can do, whereby we cue a cutscene where it locks eyes with an opponent and they both duke it out in the bottom layer of inception where all their weapons are ghosts etc. like if they hit a paladin then it's just 77 dwarves fighting one dude who was inside the armour. obvs the paladin could do smth about it but thats the idea, i think.
  
  In terms of DW stats, I think the Planetar should be formidable, but in true DW style, eminently killable. I am deciding between 3 and 4 armour, and think 15-20 health. Like it would make sense to be in dragon ranges. I also don't know if we want to necessitate a weapon to harm the armour - something like veilpiercer would do it but not sure what else. Possibly Ray's delver sword.
- Ok and then we write about Quasatar and Blackwolf-Rayet. Quasatar is the Red Sun, eventually gaining sentience and popping out of its containment shell to wander about on its own. She manifests as a red-robed dwarf with tanned skin, and a comically huge floppy red wizard's hat. Motives-wise, Quasatar is the "good wizard". However, she would see her and her sister destroy each other, and so she searches for Blackwolf-Rayet as a main goal. Along the way, she is not opposed to helping out the odd good-hearted mortal.
- As for Blackwolf-Rayet, she is the Black Sun. She takes the form of a raven-haired elf with one glittering black eye, and cosmological tattoos across her face and arms. She wears a thin David Tennant Dr Who pinstripe suit (black instead of brown), and up to the forearm both arms are skeletal, with frost-rimed bones. Mostly she wears the disguise of one Arthur P. Agado, who wears the same suit and is a bumbling archaeologist-explorer who looks kinda like the guy who voices paddington. He appears to people kinda like Bill Cipher and tries to offer them deals. Motivation-wise, Blackwolf-Rayet wants to prolong her existence, and is very averse to helping mortals for no personal gain. She wants to avoid her sister at all costs, as she knows that them meeting would mean death for the both of them.
-
-
- One of the most important things that happened in the breaking-kirk was the arrival of a Paladin. After the five delvers were repelled at great cost, the kirk's population was crippled and ch1&2 were very much in a recovery state, while they let ch3 work away with Yetzavet (?). It would not be long after the failure of ch3 that the other choruses resolved to feed yetzavet to gaggolduplex as well. But by this time, the ascetic monks in ch3 were really fuckin strong, and this posed a problem.
  
  So while it certainly spelt doom for the kirk, the first two choruses saw a glimmer of a solution when a Paladin breached the vaulted ceilings of the kirk. 
  
  Timeline-wise, this was very few years before the death of the emperor. Those who were attempting to understand gaggolduplex were consistently going insane but it was understood that gaggolduplex understood their aims and was close to a point of repaying them what they wanted. Yetzavet and their followers were barricaded against the other two choruses. And so, when borne in on a flash of white fire, the paladin arrived, the other two 'fell back' to the third chorus. Obviously, the paladin kicked the doors in and just began mulching the ch3 monks. Yetzavet had foreseen this, and in their meditation (or insanity from overexposure to other influences) had come to see that the only chance they had for mortals to break starmetal was to treat with something as strong as either the emperor or gaggolduplex. (We really need to make gaggolduplex like a faceless one. A sea of impossible shapes, waves intersecting one another at angles that cannot exist and spinning in three directions at once, etc etc, if you perceive it you go mad, if you know its name Gaggolduplex then it has you, if you capture it with more than one sense at a time then you die etc etc).
-
-
- here we realise that it's way cooler just to have the way to break the shells be to get the thing inside it to lie. as in, the perfect defence of the emperor is impregnable as long as it is never deceitful, or misleading in any way. As soon as Amn, or one of their 77, lies, their wards crack and are lowered for an unspecified length of time. So what they find with gaggolduplex isn't acid or antimatter or rust or whatever - it's the Glowermind - so sheer and so vast that it can force 3 Spear to speak and crack its shell. A brute force way of making their own Ama Magna - and hence why they need to feed it Grond and Yetzavet, because it absorbs them. Its ultimate goal at this point is still to go to sleep, and Amn is the loudest thing around.
- The paladin was Amn's mentat, basically. The advisor in chief, who could comprehend their thoughts in sufficient detail as to communicate their meaning to the lower management basically. "3 Voice Sings Harmonies", or "3 Voice". 3 indicates the number of pilots that particular Paladin's shell has had - the human named Menser being the third to pilot it. Perhaps a reflection of the relatively stress-free role of advisor.
- So at this point, Yetzavet sees their monks getting the shit kicked out of them by 3 Voice, and devises a plan. They create the thought at once in everyone's mind, and all 3 choruses join in. 3 war chants overlap, and basically Yetzavet orders everyone to hold 3 Voice down and the monks put their hands on the armour and strain to send him to sleep. Then, with the other choruses also keeping him at bay, Yetzavet folds the well into 3 Voice's mind, that it may never escape unless 3 Voice wakes up. Then, from within the shell, as gaggolduplex drifts into a version of the peaceful sleep they had been so wanting, a feather/fern-like piece of the Glowermind is gifted to the kirk. Everyone basically dead at this point, or keeping the paladin asleep, they teleport it to the surface and the kirk reaches the state it is in now.
- Then suddenly the dawn came into their caverns, sunlight through the rock. On that same golden light came the long game's end. An act of the Emperor, one of the Seventy-seven. 3 Voice Sings Harmonies was his title, the god-computer, the understander. A plate shell of surgold shone in the new dawn, and the kirk began to fall.
  On his brow was the Mind-Crown of Menser, a ring-disc of starmetal allowing the communication of the thunderous thoughts of God. And alone amongst mortals was the Paladin's ability to survive full understanding of the words of God - thus in his hands was the Mind-Crown a formidable weapon.
- And i reckon that basically we have 3 Voice, the god-computer, doing the 'one' thing where he assesses the situation and then begins fighting with this near-prescience he has. Heimdall from god of war type thing, like nobody can hit him. Then the planetar come in and their pilot lights stop him predicting them, because they contain the starfire drawn from the dead delvers. So they manage to slow him down, and they're automata so they're harder for him to pop with the Mind-Crown, etc etc
-
- SIMPLIFY
- Grond and a band of humans descend beneath the earth, allying themselves with the angel Béal Mór to hew out the Kirk. They hide themselves with god-ash and the presence of various creepy crawlies. They pay a terrible price for each room Béal Mór carves out for them, so the ceilings are low and the space cramped.
- They try and fail to rust starmetal. Along the way, they make the Visions from Beyond, and the Bells of Breaking. The remembrancer begins his infinite task, and is given the Firsthands of Grond.
- Then, they try to melt starmetal. They make Carminite and the Planetar, they improve the technology of temperglass and invent spireglass. In the process, they make two sentient suns, but neither is potent enough.
- Gaggolduplex, the glowermind, is discovered. When the second chorus fails, Grond is betrayed and the Planetar are used to kill their creator. With pretty much the only moral guy in the place gone, they make Tiamat and the Vile Hand using the black sun, Blackwolf-Rayet. Even Tiamat's fire is not hot enough, and she escapes to the surface.
- Five delver knights drop in, sardaukar style, and ultimately are repelled but at great cost. The starfire is extracted from them (from their hearts and their delver swords, or some shit) and used to create the Pilot Lights. These elevate the Planetar to an even higher level. Though their population is crippled, they are full of confidence they may even be able to take a paladin.
- Those who talk to Gaggolduplex (the Glowermind) resolve to betray the entire kirk for what they see as the only way forward. A generation of parents deceptively indoctrinate their children to the faith of Yetzira and Mavet, and together they coerce Yetzavet to aid them in a third attempt, which the parents generation know is futile before it even begins. During this attempt, they make the Altar of Uncreation, but it also fails.
- The paladin, 3 Voice Sings Harmonies, arrives and starts wrecking house. Everyone is getting pulped left and right. Yetzavet realises too late the plan involving the Glowermind and agrees to it in an act of self sacrifice. For the first time, the entire kirk works together. 3 Voice has a prescience that works against anybody but those with the Pilot Lights, and so the 3 Planetar engage him. He cracks Algol Ab's light, eliminating his usefulness as the perfect focus is disrupted and Ab can no longer even hit 3 Voice. But at this point the other two hold the paladin down, Yetzavet folds the entrance to the Glowermind into his mind and sacrifices themself to get the kirkfolk what they want.
- The piece of nine corresponding to this kirk is given, and is sent to the surface and spirited away to join the others. All the remaining folk are either dead or locked in an effort to keep 3 Voice asleep. This is the situation as is remains today. The temple of the Gold Shell, with two planetar, many monks, and many kirkfolk, all holding 3 Voice down on the bridge, the sound of snoring, and a multicoloured algal/fungal bloom over everyone involved.
-
-
- Then, the task is showing, not telling that. The main ways are in the sounds/smells/sights in the room, like their literal contents, but also in things like poem excerpts and murals on the walls that i'll write and draw. very simple ones, or just descriptions of them, but yeah i think they'll be important in helping them feel like they pieced together what happened in the kirk.
-
-
- be VERY reluctant to have anyone down there monologue. DO NOT DO SPEECHES OR LORE DUMPS. the place is cool because it is mysterious and the realisation that the candle coast's tiamat is artificial is WAY COOLER if they realise it themself. it should feel like a tomb full of terrifying stuff where every galactically valuable treasure and long buried secret is earned, but the way we make secrets feel earned is by never telling them explicitly or confirming them.
-